>[!question] [What is the difference between creating JSF pages with .jsp or .xhtml or .jsf extension](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7914660/what-is-the-difference-between-creating-jsf-pages-with-jsp-or-xhtml-or-jsf-ex)

JSP is an old view technology and widely used in combination with JSF 1.x. Facelets (by some people overgeneralized as [XHTML](https://stackoverflow.com/tags/xhtml/info)) is the successor of JSP and introduced as default view technology of JSF 2.x at end of 2009. When you were seeing JSPs, you were perhaps reading outdated books, tutorials or resources targeted on JSF 1.x. You should generally ignore them when developing with JSF 2.x and head to resources targeted on JSF 2.x, otherwise you may end up in confusion because many things are done differently in JSF 2.x on Facelets.

The `*.jsf` is just one of widely used URL patterns of the `FacesServlet` mapping in `web.xml`. Other ones are `*.faces` and `/faces/*`, but those are from back in the JSF 1.0/1.1 ages. They all do not represent the concrete file extension/path, but just a virtual file extension/path and is to be specified in URLs only like so [http://example.com/contextname/page.jsf](http://example.com/contextname/page.jsf). If you are familiar with basic [Servlets](https://stackoverflow.com/tags/servlets/info), then you should know that the servletcontainer will invoke the servlet when the request URL matches the servlet's URL pattern. So when the request URL matches `*.jsf`, then the `FacesServlet` will be invoked this way. When using JSPs, it would actually execute `page.jsp`. When using Facelets, this would actually compile `page.xhtml`.

Since JSF 2.x you can also use `*.xhtml` as URL pattern. This way you don't need to get confused when specifying URLs. Using `*.xhtml` as URL pattern was not possible in JSF 1.x with Facelets 1.x, because the `FacesServlet` would then run in an infinite loop calling itself everytime. An additional advantage of using `*.xhtml` is that the enduser won't be able to see raw JSF source code whenever the enduser purposefully changes the URL extension in browser address bar from for example `.jsf` to `.xhtml`. It is not possible to use `*.jsp` as URL pattern, because this way the container's builtin `JspServlet`, which is already using that URL pattern, would be overridden and then the `FacesServlet` wouldn't be able to feed on JSPs anymore.