Developing a simple JavaServer Faces application typically requires the following tasks, which are described in [[2.2 - A Web Module (example)]] (and following pages)
1. Creating web pages using component tags
2. Developing managed beans
3. Mapping the `FacesServlet` instance

> [!tip] For more details on:
>- ==Facelets== -> see [Chapter 8, "Introduction to Facelets"](https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/tutorial/jsf-facelets.htm#GIEPX)
>  or [[3.1.2 - Facelets]]
>- ==EL expressions== -> see [Chapter 9, "Expression Language"](https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/tutorial/jsf-el.htm#GJDDD)
>  or [[3.1.3 - EL (Expression Language)]]
>- ==JSF programming model / web pages== -> see [Chapter 10, "Using JavaServer Faces Technology in Web Pages"](https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/tutorial/jsf-page.htm#BNAQZ).
>  or [[3.1.4 - JSF in Web Pages]]

---
## The 2-phases lifecycle
(See [[3.2 - Lifecycle]])

Every web application has a lifecycle.
Common tasks, such as:
1. handling incoming requests
2. decoding parameters
3. modifying and saving state
4. rendering web pages to the browser
are all performed during a web application lifecycle.

Some web application frameworks hide the details of the lifecycle from you, whereas others require you to manage them manually.

By default, JavaServer Faces automatically handles most of the lifecycle actions for you. However, it also exposes the various stages of the request lifecycle so that you can modify or perform different actions if your application requirements warrant it.

> [!example]
The lifecycle of a JavaServer Faces application **starts and ends** with the following activity:
>1. The client makes a request for the web page
>2. The server responds with the page.
> 
>The lifecycle consists of two main phases:
>
>1. Execute
>2. Render

---
### 1. Execute phase

During the Execute phase, several actions *can take place*.
- The application view is built or restored.
- The request parameter values are applied.
- Conversions and validations are performed for component values.
- Managed beans are updated with component values.
- Application logic is invoked.

For a first (initial) request, only the view is built. For subsequent (postback) requests, some or all of the other actions can take place.

### 2. Render phase

In the Render phase, the requested view is rendered as a response to the client. Rendering is typically the process of generating output, such as HTML or XHTML, that can be read by the client, usually a browser.

---
## Lifecycle summary

> [!info] The following short description of the example JavaServer Faces application passing through its lifecycle summarizes the activity that takes place behind the scenes.

The `hello1` example application goes through the following stages when it is deployed on GlassFish Server.

1. When the `hello1` application is built and deployed on GlassFish Server, the application is in an **uninitiated state**.
> Start -> uninitiated state
2. When a client makes an initial request for the `index.xhtml` web page, the `hello1` Facelets application is compiled
> First request -> Facelets app compiled
3. The compiled Facelets application is executed, and a new component tree is constructed for the `hello1` application and placed in a `FacesContext`.
> \[...\] -> Facelets app is executed
> \[==CHECKPOINT==\]
> \[...\] -> New component tree is built and placed in a **FacesContext**
4. The component tree is populated with the component and the managed bean property associated with it, represented by the EL expression `hello.name`.
> \[...\] -> Component tree is populated
5. A new view is built, based on the component tree.
> \[...\] -> New **view** is built
6. The view is rendered to the requesting client as a response.
> \[...\] -> The view is **rendered** as a response
7. The component tree is destroyed automatically.
> \[...\] -> Component tree is **destroyed**
> \[==CHECKPOINT==\]
1. On subsequent (postback) requests, the component tree is rebuilt, and the saved state is applied.
> Second request -> Component tree is re-built, saved state is applied

> [!success] Checkpoints
> The checkpoints in the previous step-by-step lifecycle delimit the common behavior of the Facelets app  for every upcoming request

> [!question] Questions
> 1. Where is the **state** saved to? Is it the set of data held by the Beans?
> 2. Where is the component tree held?
> 3. What is a view?

---
##### ***References***
- [Oracle documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/tutorial/jsf-intro003.htm)

