In the `Hello.java` class, the annotations `javax.inject.Named` and `javax.enterprise.context.RequestScoped` identify the class as a managed bean using request scope.

```java
package javaeetutorial.hello1;

import javax.enterprise.context.RequestScoped;
import javax.inject.Named;

@Named
@RequestScoped
public class Hello {

    private String name;

    public Hello() {
    }

    public String getName() {
        return name;
    }

    public void setName(String user_name) {
        this.name = user_name;
    }
}
```

> [!success] Scope
> Scope defines how application data persists and is shared.
> The most commonly used scopes in JSF applications are the following:
>
>- Request (`@RequestScoped`): Request scope persists during a single HTTP request in a web application. In an application like `hello1`, in which the application consists of a single request and response, the bean uses request scope.
  >  
>- Session (`@SessionScoped`): Session scope persists across multiple HTTP requests in a web application. When an application consists of multiple requests and responses where data needs to be maintained, beans use session scope.
  >  
>- Application (`@ApplicationScoped`): Application scope persists across all users' interactions with a web application.  

---
### Bean annotations

JavaServer Faces support for bean annotations is introduced in [Chapter 7, "JavaServer Faces Technology"](https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/tutorial/jsf-intro.htm#BNAPH). Bean annotations can be used for configuring JavaServer Faces applications.

The `@Named` (`javax.inject.Named`) annotation in a class, along with a scope annotation, automatically registers that class as a resource with the JavaServer Faces implementation. A bean that uses these annotations is a CDI managed bean.

The following shows the use of the `@Named` and `@SessionScoped` annotations in a class:

```java
@Named("cart")
@SessionScoped
public class ShoppingCart ... { ... }
```

The above code snippet shows a bean that is managed by the JavaServer Faces implementation and is available for the length of the session.

> [!tip]
> All classes will be scanned for annotations at startup unless the `faces-config` element in the `faces-config.xml` file has the `metadata-complete` attribute set to `true`.

Annotations are also available for other artifacts, such as components, converters, validators, and renderers, to be used in place of application configuration resource file entries.
These are discussed, along with registration of custom listeners, custom validators, and custom converters in:
- ["Creating Custom UI Components and Other Custom Objects"](https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/tutorial/jsf-custom.htm#BNAVG).
- [[3.1 - Custom Components]]

---
### Using Managed Bean Scopes

You can use annotations to define the scope in which the bean will be stored.
You can specify one of the following scopes for a bean class.

#### Long-lived managed beans
- ***Application*** (`javax.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped`)
  Application scope persists across *all users' interactions* with a web application.
> Only one instance of this Bean will exist in the app, every user will be accessing the same instance.

- ***Session*** (`javax.enterprise.context.SessionScoped`)
  Session scope persists across *multiple HTTP requests* in a web application (until the end of the HTTP Session.
> Must be ***Serializable***.
#### Short-lived managed beans
- ***Request*** (`javax.enterprise.context.RequestScoped`)
  Request scope persists during a single HTTP request in a web application.
> Instantiated at the beginning of a *JSF page request*, and destroyed right after the page has been completely loaded.
> Ideal for pages displaying static information.

- ***View*** (~~`javax.faces.bean.ViewScoped`~~, `javax.faces.view.ViewScoped`)
  Created as an intermediate bean lifespan between Session Scoped and Request Scoped: doesn't live forever with the Session, but it outlives the single-page load, unlike the Request Scoped.
  As long as the user does not change Web Page, the same bean is used.
> Must be **Serializable**
> Ideal for pages with many back-and-forward of ***ajax*** calls

#### "Special"  managed beans
- ***Flow*** (`javax.faces.flows.FlowScoped`)
  Flow scope persists during a user's interaction with a specific flow of a web application. See [Using Faces Flows](https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/tutorial/jsf-configure003.htm#CHDGFCJF) for more information.

- ***Dependent*** (`javax.enterprise.context.Dependent`)
  Indicates that the bean depends on some other bean.
> [!warning] Scope: `Dependent`
> You may want to use `@Dependent` when a managed bean references another managed bean.
> The second bean should not be in a scope (`@Dependent`) if it is supposed to be created **only when it is referenced**.
> If you define a bean as `@Dependent`, the bean is instantiated anew each time it is referenced, so it does not get saved in any scope.

If your managed bean is referenced by the `binding` attribute of a component tag, you should define the bean with a ***@Request*** scope.
If you placed the bean in a ***@Session*** or ***@Application*** scope instead, the bean would need to take precautions to ensure thread safety, because `javax.faces.component.UIComponent` instances each depend on running inside of a single thread.

If you are configuring a bean that allows attributes to be associated with the view, you can use the view scope. The attributes persist until the user has navigated to the next view.

---
##### ***References***
- [Oracle documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/tutorial/jsf-configure001.htm#GIRCR)
- [LinkedIn - JSF course](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/java-ee-javaserver-faces-jsf/use-jsf-in-your-java-ee-web-applications?u=15598036)



