## Installation

The installation and initialization of the postgresql server is a little bit different in comparison to other packages and other Linux distros. This document aims to summarize basic installation steps relevant to recent Fedora Linux releases.

```shell
sudo dnf install postgresql-server postgresql-contrib
```

The postgresql server is not running and disabled by default. To set it to start at boot, run:

```shell
sudo systemctl enable postgresql
```

The database needs to be populated with initial data after installation. The database initialization could be done using following command. It creates the configuration files postgresql.conf and pg_hba.conf

```shell
sudo postgresql-setup --initdb --unit postgresql
```

To start the postgresql server manually, run

```shell
sudo systemctl start postgresql
```

---
## [User Creation and Database Creation](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#user-creation-and-database-creation)

Now you need to create a user and database for the user. This needs to be run from a `postgres` user account on your system.

```shell
sudo -u postgres psql
```

From here you can create a postgres user and database. Here, we will assume your computer’s user account is called `lenny`. Note: you can also run this from the shell as well with `createuser lenny` and `createdb --owner=lenny carl`.

```shell
postgres=# CREATE USER lenny WITH PASSWORD 'leonard';
postgres=# CREATE DATABASE my_project OWNER lenny;
```

It might be good idea to add password for the `postgres` user while you’re at it:

```shell
postgres=# \password postgres
```

Press Ctrl + D or `\q` to leave the psql session running as user `postgres`. Now you can access your new database from your user account (`lenny`) and start using it.

```shell
psql my_project
```

[[initial configuration]] == Initial Configuration

The postgresql server is using two main configuration files

- /var/lib/pgsql/data/postgresql.conf
- /var/lib/pgsql/data/pg_hba.conf

If you’re getting ident errors from your app you’ll probably need to perform the accepted solution described at [https://serverfault.com/questions/406606/postgres-error-message-fatal-ident-authentication-failed-for-user?newreg=a4fdc3e21349449985cc65b82399c5b4](https://serverfault.com/questions/406606/postgres-error-message-fatal-ident-authentication-failed-for-user?newreg=a4fdc3e21349449985cc65b82399c5b4)
```shell
sudo gedit /var/lib/pgsql/data/pg_hba.conf
```

and edit `host all all 127.0.0.1/32 ident` to `host all all 127.0.0.1/32 md5`.
This should allow most applications to connect with username/password.

---
## [Upgrade](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#upgrade)

As you can see from the error message in my example, it is not a fresh installation, but an upgrade.

```
Nov 14 11:45:56 mlich-lenovo.usersys.redhat.com postgresql-check-db-dir[2108]: An old version of the database format was found.
Nov 14 11:45:56 mlich-lenovo.usersys.redhat.com postgresql-check-db-dir[2108]: Use "postgresql-setup upgrade" to upgrade to version 9.3.
```

With version 9 you can use the upgrade tool. It is packaged as `postgresql-upgrade`:

```shell
postgresql-setup upgrade

Redirecting to /bin/systemctl stop  postgresql.service
Upgrading database: OK

The configuration files was replaced by default configuration.
The previous configuration and data are stored in folder /var/lib/pgsql/data-old.

See /var/lib/pgsql/pgupgrade.log for details.
```

The data are located at
- /var/lib/pgsql/data
- /var/lib/pgsql/data-old

The upgrade itself will backup your existing data and migrate your database. Don’t forget to migrate your configuration (with meld, for example: `meld /var/lib/pgsql/data{,-old}/postgresql.conf`).

You may need to switch postgresql to trust mode before updating. This should be fixed already.

You can also upgrade by dumping your database and loading it again. For more information, see the [official documentation](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#link-upgrade).

---

## [Firewall](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#firewall)

PostgreSQL operates on port 5432 (or whatever else you set in your `postgresql.conf`). In firewalld you can open it like this:

```
# make it last after reboot
firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=5432/tcp
# change runtime configuration
firewall-cmd --add-port=5432/tcp
```

In the case of iptables:

```
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 5432 -m state --state NEW,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
```

Bear in mind that you probably don’t want to open your database server to the whole world.

---

## [SELinux](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#selinux)

If you have SELinux enforced, you may run into trouble when trying to do some non-standard configuration. For example, if you would like to change a location of your database, you have to add new context mapping for the new location:

```
semanage fcontext -a -t postgresql_db_t "/my/new/location(/.*)?"
```

If the default port doesn’t work for you, you may need to map postgre’s port type to your desired port:

```
semanage port -a -t postgresql_port_t -p tcp 5433
```

If you install a webapp that wants to communicate with PostgreSQL via TCP/IP, you will have to tell SELinux to allow this on the webserver host:

```
setsebool -P httpd_can_network_connect_db on
```

---

## [Configuration](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#configuration)

As mentioned above, the postgresql server is using two main configuration files

- /var/lib/pgsql/data/postgresql.conf
- /var/lib/pgsql/data/pg_hba.conf

### [systemd](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#systemd)
Some configuration parameters are passed to daemon via command line options. This behaviour may override settings in `postgresql.conf`. For example, if you want to change the server’s port number to 5433, create a file named `/etc/systemd/system/postgresql.service` containing:

```
.include /lib/systemd/system/postgresql.service
[Service]
Environment=PGPORT=5433
```

Note: changing PGPORT or PGDATA will typically require adjusting SELinux configuration as well; see section selinux.

Please follow the systemd documentation [2](http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/systemd#How_do_I_customize_a_unit_file.2F_add_a_custom_unit_file.3F) for more details.

### [postgresql.conf](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#postgresql.conf)
If you want postgres to accept network connections, you should change
```
listen_addresses = 'localhost'
```
to
```
listen_addresses = '*'
```

### [pg_hba.conf](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#pg_hba.conf)
Once your database is set up, you need to configure access to your database server. This may be done by editing file `/var/lib/pgsql/data/pg_hba.conf`. There are rules like this in the file:

```
# TYPE    DATABASE        USER            ADDRESS                 METHOD
  host    all             all             127.0.0.1/32            md5
  host    all             all             ::1/128                 md5
  local   all             postgres                                peer
```

First field stands for connection type. It can have these values:

- **local** — Unix-domain socket
- **host** — plain or SSL-encrypted TCP/IP socket
- **hostssl** — an SSL-encrypted TCP/IP socket
- **hostnossl** — plain TCP/IP socket

Last column specifies which authentication method will be used.

- **md5** — client has to supply password processed with MD5 algorithm
    
- **ident** — obtain user name of connecting client from operating system and consult it with specified map
    
- **trust** — anyone who is able to connect to PostgreSQL server may act as any user without supplying password
    
- **peer** — obtains user’s name from operating system and checks if it matches database user name
    

When the database server is authenticating the client, it seeks for a record with a matching connection type, client address, requested database, and user name. As soon as it finds these credentials, it performs the authentication. If the authentication fails, no more subsequent records are taken into account. If no record matches, the client’s access is denied.

The default settings are usually restricted to localhost.

When you install your database server and at first you try to "make it work", you should turn off firewall, SELinux and make the `postgres` authentication permissive. _Bear in mind this will greatly expose your server, so do it only on a trusted network — preferably with no network at all_:

host    all             all             127.0.0.1/32            trust

As soon as you are able to connect, turn on the security systems one by one while verifying the connection can be established.

For more information see official documentation for [pg_hba.conf file](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#link-pghba).

---

## [Optimization](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#optimization)

The default configuration of postgres is severely undertuned. It can handle simple applications without consistent database access, but if you require higher performance, you should re-configure your instance. All the magic is happening in `` /var/lib/pgsql/data/postgresql.conf\` ``. Also, the logging mechanism is not configured very intuitively.

---

### [Performance](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#performance)

The number of clients which may be connected to PostgreSQL at the same time:

```
max_connections = <number>
```

`shared_buffers` is the entry point. This is telling PostgreSQL how much memory is dedicated for caching. Setting this to 25% of total memory of your system is a good start. If it doesn’t work for you, try to go for something between 15% - 40% of total memory.

```
shared_buffers = <memory unit>
```

This value is used by the query planner to know how much memory is available in the system. The query planner uses this information to figure out whether the plan fits into memory or not. Setting this to 50% of total memory is a common practice.

```
effective_cache_size = <memory unit>
```

When PostgreSQL performs sorting operations, it plans its strategy whether to sort the query on disk or in memory. Bear in mind that this memory is available for every sorting instance. In case of multiple users submitting queries to your database server, this can ramp up pretty high. Therefore this is tightly bound to `max_connections`.

```
work_mem = <memory unit>
```

For more information about this topic I advise you to read the [official documentation](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#link-tuning) about tuning PostgreSQL.

---
### [Logging](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#logging)

By default, logs are rotated every week and you might not find much information in there. One could miss a log level, date, time, etc. Also, for simple web applications, some prefer to increase verbosity.

```
log_destination = 'stderr'
```

This is just fine. If you would like syslog to take care of your logs, change `'stderr'` to `'syslog'`, or even `'syslog,stderr'`. If you go for syslog, don’t forget to configure syslog itself too; for more info, see [official documentation](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#link-logging).

```
logging_collector = on
```

In case of logging to `stderr`, `postgres` will grab all the logs if you enable the `logging_collector` option.

This is default option:

```
log_filename = 'postgresql-%a.log'
```

A preferred method could be to name log files by date when they were created:

```
log_filename = 'postgresql-%G-%m.log
```

Rotation. This really depends on the app itself. In the case of a simple app with little data in the database, all the logs may be kept persistently on disk without rotation.

```
log_truncate_on_rotation = off
log_rotation_age = 31d
```

Increase number of entries in log:

```
client_min_messages = notice      # default notice
log_min_messages = info           # default warning
log_min_error_statement = notice  # default error
```

If you would like to log slow queries, feel free to use this option:

```
log_min_duration_statement = 1000  # in ms
```

The default log entry doesn’t contain much info:

```
FATAL:  Ident authentication failed for user "test"
DETAIL:  Connection matched pg_hba.conf line 84: "host    all             all             ::1/128                 ident"
```

Let’s improve it to:

```shell
2013-12-30 17:51:36 CET testx@::1(50867):postgres [11213] FATAL:  password authentication failed for user "testx"
2013-12-30 17:51:36 CET testx@::1(50867):postgres [11213] DETAIL:  Connection matched pg_hba.conf line 84: "host   all             all             ::1/128                 md5 "
```

You just have to alter the option `log_line_prefix`.

```shell
# %t -- timestamp
# %u -- user
# %r -- client's host
# %d -- database
# %p -- PID
log_line_prefix = '%t %u@%r:%d [%p] '
```

If you are running only a single database with a single user connecting, it makes more sense to simplify the prefix to

```
log_line_prefix = '%t [%p] '
```

#### [Final recipe](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/#final-recipe)

```shell
log_destination = 'stderr'
logging_collector = on
log_filename = 'postgresql-%G-%m.log'
log_truncate_on_rotation = off
log_rotation_age = 31d
client_min_messages = notice
log_min_messages = info
log_min_error_statement = notice
log_line_prefix = '%t %u@%r:%d [%p] '
```


---

***References***
- [Fedora doc](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/postgresql/)