> [!info] GlassFish + NetBeans

Once the web module is deployed, you can view it by opening the application in a web browser.
By default, the application is deployed to host `localhost` on port 8080.

1. Open a web browser.
2. Enter the following URL:
```
http://localhost:8080/<context-root>/
```
3. In the field, enter your name and click Submit.
```
The response page displays the name you submitted. Click Back to try again.
```

---
### 6.3.4.1 Dynamic Reloading of Deployed Modules

If *dynamic reloading* is enabled, you do not have to redeploy an application or module when you change its code or deployment descriptors.
All you have to do is copy the changed pages or class files into the deployment directory for the application or module.

> [!example] Auto-deploy
> The ==deployment directory== for a web module named `context-root` is `<domain-dir>/applications/<context-root>`.
> The server checks for changes periodically and redeploys the application, automatically and dynamically, with the changes.

This capability is useful in a development environment because it allows code changes to be tested quickly. Dynamic reloading is not recommended for a production environment, however, because it may degrade performance. In addition, whenever a reload takes place, the sessions at that time become invalid, and the client must restart the session.

In GlassFish Server, dynamic reloading is enabled by default.


---
##### ***References***
- [Oracle documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/tutorial/webapp003.htm#BNADX)
