> [!info] GlassFish + NetBeans

A web module must be packaged into a WAR in certain deployment scenarios and whenever you want to distribute the web module.
You can package a web module into a WAR file by using Maven or by using the IDE tool of your choice.

You can deploy a WAR file to **GlassFish Server**.

### 6.3.2.1 To Build and Package the hello1 Web Module Using NetBeans IDE

1. Start GlassFish Server as described in [To Start GlassFish Server Using NetBeans IDE](https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/tutorial/usingexamples002.htm#CHDCACDI), if you have not already done so.
    
2. From the File menu, choose Open Project.
    
3. In the Open Project dialog box, navigate to:
    
    tut-install/examples/web/jsf
    
4. Select the `hello1` folder.
    
5. Click Open Project.
    
6. In the Projects tab, right-click the `hello1` project and select Build. This command deploys the project to the server.
    

### 6.3.2.2 To Build and Package the hello1 Web Module Using Maven

1. Start GlassFish Server as described in [To Start GlassFish Server Using the Command Line](https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/tutorial/usingexamples002.htm#CHDBDDAF), if you have not already done so.
    
2. In a terminal window, go to:
    
    tut-install/examples/web/jsf/hello1/
    
3. Enter the following command:
    
    mvn install
    
    This command spawns any necessary compilations and creates the WAR file in tut-install`/examples/web/jsf/hello1/target/`. It then deploys the project to the server.
    
## 6.3.3 Viewing Deployed Web Modules

GlassFish Server provides two ways to view the deployed web modules: the Administration Console and the `asadmin` command. You can also use NetBeans IDE to view deployed modules.

### 6.3.3.1 To View Deployed Web Modules Using the Administration Console

1. Open the URL `http://localhost:4848/` in a browser.
    
2. Select the Applications node.
    
    The deployed web modules appear in the Deployed Applications table.
    

### 6.3.3.2 To View Deployed Web Modules Using the asadmin Command

Enter the following command:

asadmin list-applications

### 6.3.3.3 To View Deployed Web Modules Using NetBeans IDE

1. In the Services tab, expand the Servers node, then expand the GlassFish Server node.
    
2. Expand the Applications node to view the deployed modules.

---
##### ***References***
- [Oracle documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/tutorial/webapp003.htm#BNADX)
