You define servlets as a part of a Web application in several entries in the J2EE standard Web Application deployment descriptor, `web.xml`.
The `web.xml` file is located in the `WEB-INF` directory of your Web application.

Servlet mapping is composed of 2 entries:
1. The first entry, under the root `servlet` element in `web.xml`, defines a name for the servlet and specifies the compiled class that executes the servlet.
	==Or, instead of specifying a servlet class, you can specify a JSP.==
	The `servlet` element also contains definitions for initialization attributes and security roles for the servlet.
2. The second entry in web.xml, under the `servlet-mapping` element, defines the URL pattern that calls this servlet.

---
### Servlet Mapping

> [!tip] Servlet mapping controls how you access a servlet.

The following examples demonstrate how you can use servlet mapping in your Web application.
In the examples, a set of servlet configurations and mappings (from the `web.xml` deployment descriptor) is followed by a table (see [url-patterns and Servlet Invocation](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E13222_01/wls/docs92/webapp/configureservlet.html#wp156745) ) showing the URLs used to invoke these servlets.

For more information on servlet mappings, such as general servlet mapping rules and conventions, refer to Section 11 of the [Servlet 2.4 specification](http://java.sun.com/products/servlet/download.html#specs).

Listing 4-1 Servlet Mapping Example

```xml
<servlet>  
  <servlet-name>watermelon</servlet-name>  
  <servlet-class>myservlets.watermelon</servlet-class>  
</servlet>

<servlet>  
  <servlet-name>garden</servlet-name>  
  <servlet-class>myservlets.garden</servlet-class>  
</servlet>

<servlet>  
  <servlet-name>list</servlet-name>  
  <servlet-class>myservlets.list</servlet-class>  
</servlet>

<servlet>  
  <servlet-name>kiwi</servlet-name>  
  <servlet-class>myservlets.kiwi</servlet-class>  
</servlet>

<servlet-mapping>  
  <servlet-name>watermelon</servlet-name>  
  <url-pattern>/fruit/summer/*</url-pattern>  
</servlet-mapping>

<servlet-mapping>  
  <servlet-name>garden</servlet-name>  
  <url-pattern>/seeds/*</url-pattern>  
</servlet-mapping>

<servlet-mapping>  
  <servlet-name>list</servlet-name>  
  <url-pattern>/seedlist</url-pattern>  
</servlet-mapping>

<servlet-mapping>  
  <servlet-name>kiwi</servlet-name>  
  <url-pattern>*.abc</url-pattern>  
</servlet-mapping>
```


| URL                                                 | Servlet Invoked                                                                                                                                                                           |
| --------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `http://host:port/mywebapp/fruit/summer/index.html` | `watermelon`                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `http://host:port/mywebapp/fruit/summer/index.abc`  | `watermelon`                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `http://host:port/mywebapp/seedlist`                | `list`                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `http://host:port/mywebapp/seedlist/index.html`     | The default servlet, if configured, or an HTTP 404 File Not Found error message.<br><br>If the mapping for the `list` servlet had been `/seedlist*`, the `list` servlet would be invoked. |
| `http://host:port/mywebapp/seedlist/pear.abc`       | `kiwi`<br><br>If the mapping for the `list` servlet had been `/seedlist*`, the `list` servlet would be invoked.                                                                           |
| `http://host:port/mywebapp/seeds`                   | `garden`                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `http://host:port/mywebapp/seeds/index.html`        | `garden`                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `http://host:port/mywebapp/index.abc`               | `kiwi`                                                                                                                                                                                    |
##### Default mapping
`ServletServlet` can be used to create a default mappings for servlets.
For example, to create a default mapping to map all servlets to /myservlet/*, so the servlets can be called using http://host:port/web-app-name/myservlet/com/foo/FooServlet, add the following to your web.xml file.

>[!tip] The `web.xml` file is located in the `WEB-INF` directory of your Web application
```xml
<servlet>  
	<servlet-name>ServletServlet</servlet-name>  
	<servlet-class>weblogic.servlet.ServletServlet</servlet-class>  
</servlet>

<servlet-mapping>
	<servlet-name>ServletServlet</servlet-name>  
	<url-pattern>/myservlet/*</url-pattern>  
</servlet-mapping>
```

---

## Setting Up a Default Servlet

Each Web application has a default servlet.

> [!info] `FileServlet`
This default servlet can be a servlet that you specify, or, if you do not specify a default servlet, WebLogic Server uses an internal servlet called the `FileServlet` as the default servlet.

You can register any servlet as the default servlet.
Writing your own default servlet allows you to use your own logic to decide how to handle a request that falls back to the default servlet.

Setting up a default servlet replaces the `FileServlet` and should be done carefully because the `FileServlet` is used to serve most files, such as text files, HTML file, image files, and more.
If you expect your default servlet to serve such files, you will need to write that functionality into your default servlet.


To set up a user-defined default servlet:
1. Define your servlet as described in [Configuring How a Client Accesses a Web Application](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E13222_01/wls/docs92/webapp/configurewebapp.html#wp157844)Add a servlet-mapping with url-pattern = “/” as follows:

```xml
<servlet-mapping> 
	<servlet-name>MyOwnDefaultServlet</servlet-name>
	<url-pattern>/myservlet/*(</url-pattern>
</servlet-mapping>
```

2. If you still want the `FileServlet` to ==serve files with other extensions==:
- Define a servlet and give it a `<servlet-name>`, for example `myFileServlet`
- Define the `<servlet-class>` as `weblogic.servlet.FileServlet`
- Using the `<servlet-mapping>` element, map file extensions to the `myFileServlet` (in addition to the mappings for your default servlet).
  > For example, if you want the `myFileServlet` to serve`.gif` files, map `*.gif` to the `myFileServlet`.

> [!note] Note
> The `FileServlet` includes the `SERVLET_PATH` when determining the source filename if the `docHome` parameter (deprecated in this release) is not specified.
> As a result, it is possible to explicitly serve only files from specific directories by mapping the `FileServlet` to `/dir/*`, etc.


---

## Servlet Initialization Attributes

You define initialization attributes for servlets in the Web application deployment descriptor, `web.xml`, in the `init-param` element of the `servlet` element, using `param-name` and `param-value` tags.

> Example of Configuring Servlet Initialization Attributes in web.xml
```xml
<servlet>  
  <servlet-name>HelloWorld2</servlet-name>   
  <servlet-class>examples.servlets.HelloWorld2</servlet-class>

  <init-param>  
    <param-name>greeting</param-name>   
    <param-value>Welcome</param-value>   
  </init-param>

  <init-param>  
    <param-name>person</param-name>   
    <param-value>WebLogic Developer</param-value>   
  </init-param>  
</servlet>
```

---

## Writing a Simple HTTP Servlet

The section provides a procedure for writing a simple HTTP servlet, which prints out the message Hello World.

> [!tip] Complete example
> A complete code example (the `HelloWorldServlet`) illustrating these steps is included at the end of this section.
> Additional information about using various J2EE and Weblogic Server services such as JDBC, RMI, and JMS, in your servlet are discussed later in this document.

#### Step-by-step

1. **Import the appropriate package and classes, including the following**
   ```java
	import javax.servlet.*;  
	import javax.servlet.http.*;  
	import java.io.*;
	```

2. **Extend `javax.servlet.http.HttpServlet`. For example**
   ```java
	public class HelloWorldServlet extends HttpServlet { 
	```

3. **Implement a `service()` method**
   
   The main function of a servlet is to accept an HTTP request from a Web browser, and return an HTTP response. This work is done by the `service()` method of your servlet. Service methods include response objects used to create output and request objects used to receive data from the client.
   
   You may have seen other servlet examples implement the `doPost()` and/or `doGet()` methods. These methods reply only to POST or GET requests; if you want to handle all request types from a single method, your servlet can simply implement the `service()` method. (However, if you choose to implement the `service()` method, you cannot implement the `doPost()` or `doGet()` methods, unless you call `super.service()` at the beginning of the `service()` method.) The HTTP servlet specification describes other methods used to handle other request types, but all of these methods are collectively referred to as _service_ methods.
   
   All the service methods take the same parameter arguments. An `HttpServletRequest` provides information about the request, and your servlet uses an `HttpServletResponse` to reply to the HTTP client. The service method looks like the following:
   
   ```java
	public void service(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse res) throws IOException {
	```

4. Set the content type, as follows:
   ```java
		res.setContentType("text/html");
	```

5. Get a reference to a `java.io.PrintWriter` object to use for output, as follows:
   ```
		PrintWriter out = res.getWriter();
	```

6. Create some HTML using the `println()` method on the `PrintWriter` object, as shown in the following example:
   ```java
		out.println("<html><head><title>Hello World!</title></head>");  
		out.println("<body><h1>Hello World!</h1></body></html>");  
	  }  
	}
	```

7. Compile the servlet, as follows:
- Set up a development environment shell with the correct `classpath` and `path` settings.
- From the directory containing the Java source code for your servlet, compile your servlet into the `WEB-INF/classes` directory of the Web Application that contains your servlet.
  ```shell
	javac -d /myWebApplication/WEB-INF/classes myServlet.java
	```

8. Deploy the servlet as part of a Web Application hosted on WebLogic Server.
9. Call the servlet from a browser.
   
   The URL you use to call a servlet is determined by: (a) the name of the Web Application containing the servlet and (b) the name of the servlet as mapped in the deployment descriptor of the Web Application. Request parameters can also be included in the URL used to call a servlet.
   
   Generally the URL for a servlet conforms to the following:
   http://host:port/webApplicationName/mappedServletName?parameter
   
   The components of the URL are defined as follows:
   - `host` is the name of the machine running WebLogic Server.
   - `port` is the port at which the above machine is listening for HTTP requests.
   - `webApplicationName` is the name of the Web Application containing the servlet.
   - parameters are one or more name-value pairs containing information sent from the browser that can be used in your servlet.

	For example, to use a Web browser to call the `HelloWorldServlet` (the example featured in this document), which is deployed in the `examplesWebApp` and served from a WebLogic Server running on your machine, enter the following URL:
	http://localhost:7001/examplesWebApp/HelloWorldServlet
	
	The `host``:``port` portion of the URL can be replaced by a DNS name that is mapped to WebLogic Server.


---

## Advanced Features

The preceding steps create a basic servlet.
You will probably also use more advanced features of servlets:

- Handling HTML form data—HTTP servlets can receive and process data received from a browser client in HTML forms.

- [Retrieving Client Input](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E13222_01/wls/docs92/webapp/progservlet.html#wp159482)

- Application design—HTTP servlets offer many ways to design your application. The following sections provide detailed information about writing servlets:

- [Providing an HTTP Response](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E13222_01/wls/docs92/webapp/progservlet.html#wp159442)
- [Threading Issues in HTTP Servlets](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E13222_01/wls/docs92/webapp/progservlet.html#wp159998)
- [Dispatching Requests to Another Resource](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E13222_01/wls/docs92/webapp/progservlet.html#wp160016)

- Initializing a servlet—if your servlet needs to initialize data, accept initialization arguments, or perform other actions when the servlet is initialized, you can override the `init()` method.

- [Initializing a Servlet](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E13222_01/wls/docs92/webapp/progservlet.html#wp159396)

- Use of sessions and persistence in your servlet—sessions and persistence allow you to track your users within and between HTTP sessions. Session management includes the use of cookies. For more information, see the following sections:

- [Session Tracking from a Servlet](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E13222_01/wls/docs92/webapp/sessions.html#wp150259)
- [Using Cookies in a Servlet](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E13222_01/wls/docs92/webapp/progservlet.html#wp177086)
- [Configuring Session Persistence](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E13222_01/wls/docs92/webapp/sessions.html#wp139726)

- Use of WebLogic services in your servlet—WebLogic Server provides a variety of services and APIs that you can use in your Web applications. These services include Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) drivers, JDBC database connection pools, Java Messaging Service (JMS), Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB), and Remote Method Invocation (RMI). For more information, see the following sections:

- [Using WebLogic Services from an HTTP Servlet](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E13222_01/wls/docs92/webapp/progservlet.html#wp159900)
- [Accessing Databases](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E13222_01/wls/docs92/webapp/progservlet.html#wp159914)

---

## Complete HelloWorldServlet Example

This section provides the complete Java source code for the example used in the preceding procedure. The example is a simple servlet that provides a response to an HTTP request. Later in this document, this example is expanded to illustrate how to use HTTP parameters, cookies, and session tracking.

Listing 4-3 HelloWorldServlet.java

import javax.servlet.*;  
import javax.servlet.http.*;  
import java.io.*;

public class HelloWorldServlet extends HttpServlet {  
  public void service(HttpServletRequest req,   
                      HttpServletResponse res)  
       throws IOException  
  {  
    // Must set the content type first  
    res.setContentType("text/html");  
    // Now obtain a PrintWriter to insert HTML into  
    PrintWriter out = res.getWriter();

    out.println("<html><head><title>" +  
                "Hello World!</title></head>");  
    out.println("<body><h1>Hello World!</h1></body></html>");  
  }  
}

You can find the source code and instructions for compiling and running examples in the `samples/examples/servlets` directory of your WebLogic Server distribution.


---
##### ***References***
- [Oracle documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E13222_01/wls/docs92/webapp/configureservlet.html)